---
title: Introduction
description: Get started with kftui - A  Kubernetes port-forwarding manager
---

### Introduction

KFtui (Kubernetes Forward Terminal User Interface) is a terminal-based application designed to simplify the management of `kubectl port-forward` configurations for Kubernetes users. It provides a user-friendly interface for starting, stopping, and managing multiple port forwarding sessions simultaneously, making it easier to debug and test applications running in Kubernetes clusters.

#### Why Use KFtui?

Working with Kubernetes often involves debugging applications and services running in pods or containers. The `kubectl port-forward` command is a powerful tool for exposing these workloads to your local machine, but it can become cumbersome when dealing with multiple port forwarding sessions across different namespaces, contexts, or clusters.

KFtui aims to streamline this process by providing a centralized interface for managing all your port forwarding configurations. With KFtui, you can:

- **Manage Multiple Configurations**: Create, import, and manage port forwarding configurations for various services, pods, or workloads in your Kubernetes cluster.
- **Start/Stop Port Forwarding**: Easily start and stop port forwarding sessions for selected configurations or all configurations at once.
- **Synchronize with GitHub**: Sync your port forwarding configurations with a GitHub repository, enabling collaboration and sharing across teams or projects.
- **Auto Import from Annotations**: Automatically import port forwarding configurations based on Kubernetes Service annotations, keeping your configurations in sync with your manifests.
- **TCP and UDP Support**: Forward both TCP and UDP ports, supporting a wide range of applications and protocols.
- **Proxy Workloads**: Proxy upstream workloads, such as services or pods, to your local machine for debugging or testing purposes.

#### Key Features

- **Simple and Efficient Interface**: KFtui provides a terminal-based user interface (TUI) that is lightweight, resource-friendly, and accessible from the terminal.
- **Configuration Management**: Import, export, and manage port forwarding configurations using JSON files or GitHub repositories.
- **Automatic Reconnection**: KFtui automatically reconnects to running pods if the connection is interrupted, ensuring continuous service.
- **Multi-Protocol Support**: Forward both TCP and UDP ports, supporting a wide range of applications and protocols.
- **Proxy Workloads**: Proxy upstream workloads, such as services or pods, to your local machine for debugging or testing purposes.
- **Auto Import from Annotations**: Automatically import port forwarding configurations based on Kubernetes Service annotations, keeping your configurations in sync with your manifests.

Whether you're a developer, DevOps engineer, or site reliability engineer (SRE) working with Kubernetes, KFtui can help streamline your debugging and testing workflows, saving you time and effort in managing port forwarding sessions.

Get started with KFtui by following the [Quick Start Guide](quick-start) or explore the other sections of the documentation to learn more about its features and usage.
